Global vaccine status and distribution (#896)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/22.vaccines.md

The unprecedented development of COVID-19 vaccines in under a year since the beginning of the pandemic now requires rapid global vaccine production and distribution plans.
The development of vaccines are costly and complicated, but vaccine distribution can be just as challenging.
Logistical considerations such as transport, storage, equipment (syringes), the workforce to administer the vaccines, and a continual supply from the manufacturers to meet global demands all must be accounted for and will vary globally due to economic, geographic, and sociopolitical reasons [@doi:10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100674; @doi:10.1126/science.abe2803; @doi:10.1126/sciadv.abf1374]. 
Deciding on the prioritization and allocation of the COVID-19 vaccines is also a challenging task due to ethical and operational considerations.
Various frameworks, models, and methods have been proposed to tackle these issues with many countries, regions or States as is the case in the U.S., devising their own distribution and administration plans  [@doi:10.1126/science.abe6959; @doi:10.1038/s41598-020-78447-3; @doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.12.059; @doi:10.1136/medethics-2020-107036; @doi:10.1101/2021.01.12.21249694]. 

> The majority of the distribution plans prioritize health care workers, the elderly, the immunocompromised, and those most vulnerable due to comorbidities should be offered the vaccines first, before targeting the rest of the population who are less likely to have severe outcomes [@url:https://ourworldindata.org/covid-vaccination-policy].

Author: How are we looking now?

> The majority of the distribution plans prioritize health care workers, the elderly, the immunocompromised, and those most vulnerable due to comorbidities should be offered the vaccines first, before targeting the rest of the population who are less likely to have severe outcomes [@url:https://ourworldindata.org/covid-vaccination-policy].

Reviewer: Hey @RLordan, it sounds like you added something, but I don't see any changes! I'm not sure if I'm missing something?

> The majority of the distribution plans prioritize health care workers, the elderly, the immunocompromised, and those most vulnerable due to comorbidities should be offered the vaccines first, before targeting the rest of the population who are less likely to have severe outcomes [@url:https://ourworldindata.org/covid-vaccination-policy].

Author: @rando2 I just clicked commit, maybe you can see it now. This was the suggested change: 

The majority of the distribution plans prioritize offering vaccines to key workers such as health care workers, and those who are clinically vulnerable such as the elderly, the immunocompromised, and individuals with comorbidities, before targeting the rest of the population, who are less likely to experience severe outcomes from COVID-19 [@url:https://ourworldindata.org/covid-vaccination-policy].

> As of March 6th, 2021, approximately 319 million vaccine doses have been administered in at least 118 countries worldwide using 10 different vaccines [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html; @url:https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/covid-vaccine-tracker-global-distribution/]. 

Author: That would be awesome if we could. It would certainly keep us up to date.

The New York Times, Bloomberg and a few other websites we cite all use maps to show vaccine approvals and distributions. I speak hypothetically because I know nothing about code only that I want to learn when I get time (which is never haha), but could you scrape data from them to make our our own maps like the ones for the clinical trials data?

> As of March 6th, 2021, approximately 319 million vaccine doses have been administered in at least 118 countries worldwide using 10 different vaccines [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html; @url:https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/covid-vaccine-tracker-global-distribution/]. 

Reviewer: So it just depends on where they're pulling data from! When it's a CSV file (or a text file, or any structured file type) that's on the internet like in that link, it's pretty easy to bring the data into python and then make a map! But for something like Bloomberg, I would guess they are cagey about sharing their data (given that I usually can't see their articles!)

No worries about not having time to learn to code -- it's much easier to learn out of need rather than as something you have an abstract interest in! When the world opens back up, hopefully we'll be able to get [Software Carpentry](https://software-carpentry.org/) workshops running in Philly, where the goal is to offer a supportive space where scientists can dabble with learning to code!

> As of March 6th, 2021, approximately 319 million vaccine doses have been administered in at least 118 countries worldwide using 10 different vaccines [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html; @url:https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/covid-vaccine-tracker-global-distribution/]. 

Author: They may be getting their info from the world of data page we cite. They have a load of COVID-related data available. 

I definitely want to learn for myself, not being able to do even simple things in R or scrape data into a functional output is not a major issue right now, but would it would be very useful in the future.

> As of March 6th, 2021, approximately 319 million vaccine doses have been administered in at least 118 countries worldwide using 10 different vaccines [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html; @url:https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/covid-vaccine-tracker-global-distribution/]. 

Reviewer: Excellent, I will keep you on my list of people to bug when/if I eventually get a workshop organized!

> As of March 6th, 2021, approximately 319 million vaccine doses have been administered in at least 118 countries worldwide using 10 different vaccines [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html; @url:https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/covid-vaccine-tracker-global-distribution/]. 

Author: Definitely do!!

> The global vaccination rate is currently ~8.1 million doses per day, which at the current rate would take almost 4 years to vaccinate 75% of the world's population according to media estimates of a two-dose regimen [@url:https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/covid-vaccine-tracker-global-distribution/].

Author: Again, it would be pretty cool if we could.

Vaccine production and distribution varies from region to region and seems to depend on the availability of the vaccines and potentially a country's resources and wealth [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/25/business/coronavirus-vaccines-global-economy.html].

> In North America, the majority of vaccines distributed until March 2021 have been produced by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. 

Author: I didn't see this when I wrote my previous request haha 
But I think that would definitely set this paper apart from others.

> In North America, the majority of vaccines distributed until March 2021 have been produced by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. 

Reviewer 2: If you script a version of it that runs locally, I can help plug it in to the nightly builds.

Health Canada have authorized the use of the Pfizer (December 9th, 2020), Moderna (December 23rd, 2020), Oxford-AstraZeneca (February 26th, 2021), and the Janssen (March 5th, 2021) vaccines and the Novavax Inc vaccine is also under consideration [@url:https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-health-products/covid19-industry/drugs-vaccines-treatments/authorization/applications.html#wb-auto-4].  
While Canada initially projected that by the end of September 2021 a vaccine would be available for all Canadian adults, they now predict that it may be possible earlier as more vaccines have been approved and become available [@url:https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/trudeau-possible-vaccination-campaign-ends-sooner-1.5934994]. 

In the U.S., vaccines are required to have demonstrated safety and efficacy in phase III trials before manufacturers apply for an emergency use authorization (EUA) from the FDA. 

> If an EUA is granted, an additional evaluation of the safety and efficacy of the vaccines is conducted by the CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) who also provide guidance on vaccine prioritization. 

Author: The process is not very well documented actually because they never had to do it for such speed before. I think the CDC now has an information page that they keep adding to that gives an account of the process. I will find it and cite it in the next update of this section.

On December 1st, 2020, ACIP provided an interim phase 1a recommendation that healthcare workers and long-term care facility residents should be the first offered any vaccine approved [@url:10.15585/mmwr.mm6949e1]. 

> This was shortly followed by an EUA on December 11th, 2020, for the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID vaccine [@doi:10.15585/mmwr.mm6950e2], which was distributed and administered to the first healtcare workers on December 14th, 2020 [@url:https://abcnews.go.com/US/us-administer-1st-doses-pfizer-coronavirus-vaccine/story?id=74703018]. 

Author: quick question, are we going with health care or healthcare... I have no idea which is right, but for consistency what should we write? haha

This was followed by an EUA for the Moderna vaccine on December 18th, 2020 [@doi:10.15585/mmwr.mm695152e1]. 

> On December 20th, 2020, ACIP updated their initial recommendations (phase 1b) suggesting vaccinations should be offered to people aged 75 years old and older and to non-healthcare frontline workers [@doi:10.15585/mmwr.mm695152e2]. 

Author: correct

On the same date, it was recommended that phase 1c would include people aged 65-74 years old, individuals between the ages of 16-74 years old who are at high-risk due to health conditions, and essential workers that were not eligible in phase 1b [@doi:10.15585/mmwr.mm695152e2].

> On the following day, December 21st, 2020, the first Moderna vaccines used outside of clinical trials were administered to American healthcare workers, which was the same day that President-elect Biden and Dr Biden received their first doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine live on television to instill confidence in the approval and vaccination process [@url:https://www.cnn.com/2020/12/21/health/us-coronavirus-monday/index.html]. 

Author: Haha well it puts things in context too right... 

I remember writing this and thinking I better make sure to say Dr Biden :D :D

On February 27th, 2020, the FDA issued an EUA for the Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine [@url:https://www.fda.gov/emergency-preparedness-and-response/coronavirus-disease-2019-covid-19/janssen-covid-19-vaccine]. 
This was followed by an update on recommendations by ACIP for the use of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine for those over 18 years old [@doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm7009e4]. 
The Janssen vaccine was first distributed to healthcare facilities on March 1st, 2021.
While the CDC’s ACIP can provide recommendations, it is up to the public health authorities of each state, territory, and tribe to interpret the guidance and determine who will be vaccinated first [@url:https://www.hhs.gov/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccines/distribution/index.html].
Prior to distribution of the Janssen vaccine, over 103 million doses of the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines were delivered across the U.S. with almost 79 million doses administered. 

> Of the total population, 15.6% have received at least one dose and 7.9% have received a second dose of either the Moderna (~38.3 million) or the Pfizer-BioNTech (~40.2 million) vaccines [@url:https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#vaccinations].

Author: It would be great, but I would prioritize the other automated parts first as they are more global discussion and this is US specific. Although I do really like their data outputs. 

```suggestion
Of the total population, 15.6% have received at least one dose and 7.9% have received a second dose of either the Moderna (~38.3 million) or the Pfizer-BioNTech (~40.2 million) vaccines by February 28th, 2021 [@url:https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#vaccinations].
```

> Of the total population, 15.6% have received at least one dose and 7.9% have received a second dose of either the Moderna (~38.3 million) or the Pfizer-BioNTech (~40.2 million) vaccines [@url:https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#vaccinations].

Author: Does this clear it up a bit?

President Biden’s administration has predicted that by the end of May 2021 there may be enough vaccine supply available for all Adults in the U.S. [@url:https://www.cnn.com/2021/03/02/politics/biden-merck-johnson--johnson-vaccine/index.html; @url:https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-55721437].  

> However, vaccine production, approval, and distribution was not straightforward for U.S., as information was initially sparse and the rollout of vaccines was complicated by poor planning and leadership due to political activities prior to the change of administration in January 2021 [@url:https://ssrn.com/abstract=3770368]. 

Author: Well... it is just presenting the facts... I purposely didn't use the copious news sites as a reference here haha

I will let the decision to you. 

I also said political activities rather than name the specific individual... who I so desperately wanted to name...

Voldemort

> However, vaccine production, approval, and distribution was not straightforward for U.S., as information was initially sparse and the rollout of vaccines was complicated by poor planning and leadership due to political activities prior to the change of administration in January 2021 [@url:https://ssrn.com/abstract=3770368]. 

Reviewer: If someone has a nicer way to say these things, they can suggest it, haha. I agree with what you wrote!

Hence the importance of the transparent vaccine approval process conducted by the FDA [@doi:10.1001/jama.2021.1961]. 

Outside the U.S., the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines have been administered in 29 and 69 other countries respectively, mainly in Europe and North America [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html].
The Janssen vaccine has so far only been administered in South Africa and the U.S., [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html; https://www.biopharma-reporter.com/Article/2021/02/18/South-Africa-starts-administering-Janssen-COVID-19-vaccine-to-health-workers], but it has been approved in Bahrain [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html].

> The Janssen vaccine producers, Johnson & Johnson, have applied to European Medicines Agency (EMA) for conditional marketing authorisation [@url:https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema-receives-application-conditional-marketing-authorisation-covid-19-vaccine-janssen].

Author: ```suggestion
On March 11th, 2021, Johnson & Johnson have received approval by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for conditional marketing authorisation [@url:https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema-receives-application-conditional-marketing-authorisation-covid-19-vaccine-janssen].
```

> The Janssen vaccine producers, Johnson & Johnson, have applied to European Medicines Agency (EMA) for conditional marketing authorisation [@url:https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema-receives-application-conditional-marketing-authorisation-covid-19-vaccine-janssen].

Author: There will be many more changes probably the day before submission haha

In the Middle East, Iran has received its first doses of Sputnik V and the United Arab Emirates is conducting phase III trials [@url:https://fortune.com/2021/02/08/international-sputnik-russia-demand/]. 
In Asia, while China’s vaccine candidates are favoured, the Philippines, Nepal, and Uzbekistan have sought Sputnik V doses [@url:https://rdif.ru/Eng_fullNews/5858/; @url:https://rdif.ru/Eng_fullNews/5858/].
In total, the RDIF claims to have received orders totalling 1.2 billion doses by over 50 countries worldwide [@url:https://rdif.ru/Eng_fullNews/5858/] and at least 18 countries are currently administering Sputnik V around the globe [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html].
Sputnik V has been an attractive vaccine for many countries due to its relatively low price, high efficacy, and its favourable storage conditions.
For some countries, Russia and China have also been more palatable politically than vaccine suppliers in the West [@url:https://fortune.com/2021/02/08/international-sputnik-russia-demand/; @url:https://www.politico.com/news/2021/02/25/global-vaccine-public-relations-war-471665]. 

> For others, the delays in the distribution of the other more favoured candidates has been a motivating factor for pursuing the Sputnik V and Chinese alternatives [@url:https://www.politico.com/news/2021/02/25/global-vaccine-public-relations-war-471665; https://www.euronews.com/2021/02/24/san-marino-buys-russia-s-sputnik-v-after-eu-vaccine-delivery-delays]. 

Author: Some would say the Russian vaccine is just as well-documented as the phase II and III data is published in the Lancet... this is a tricky one. I see your point.

On the same date, the CanSino was approved for use in China and has been granted emergency use in Mexico and Pakistan, which were two participating countries in the CanSino phase III trials [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#cansino].
However, the vaccine approval and distribution processes in China have come under increased scrutiny from other nations. 
China was criticized for administering vaccines to thousands of government officials and state-owned businesses in September 2020, prior to the completion of phase III clinical trials [@doi:10.1001/jama.2021.1961].
The behaviour of Chinese officials has also come into question due to misinformation campaigns questioning the safety of Western vaccine candidates such as Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech in a way that is intended to highlight the benefits of their own vaccine candidates [@url: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/25/business/china-covid-19-vaccine-backlash.html].

> Furthermore, delays in vaccine distribution have also caused issues, particularly in Turkey where 10 million doses of Sinovac were due to arrive by December 2020, but only 3 million have arrived since early January [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/25/business/china-covid-19-vaccine-backlash.html]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, delays in vaccine distribution have also caused issues, particularly in Turkey where 10 million doses of Sinovac were due to arrive by December 2020, but instead only 3 million were delivered in early January [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/25/business/china-covid-19-vaccine-backlash.html]. 
```

This will be concerning to China who have vaccine contracts for millions of doses with Indonesia (>100 million), Brazil (100 million), Chile (60 million), Turkey (50 million), Egypt (40 million) and many others [@url:https://www.wsj.com/articles/chinas-covid-19-vaccine-makers-struggle-to-meet-demand-11612958560].

Globally, North America currently leads the world vaccination rates (13.8 per 100 people) followed by Europe (8.2 per 100), South America (3.1 per 100), Asia (1.9 per 100), Africa (0.3 per 100), and Oceania (0.1 per 100) are trailing behind [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/world/covid-vaccinations-tracker.html].
Considering the wealthy nations of North America and Europe have secured most of the limited COVID-19 vaccine stocks [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/15/us/coronavirus-vaccine-doses-reserved.html], it is likely that low- and middle-income countries will face further competition with Western countries for vaccine availability. 

> While South Africa and Zimbabwe have their own vaccination programs, many other African nations will be reliant on the COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) Facility who have promised 600 million doses [@url:https://www.bbc.com/news/56100076].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While South Africa and Zimbabwe have their own vaccination programs, many other African nations will be reliant on the COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) Facility, who have promised 600 million doses to the continent [@url:https://www.bbc.com/news/56100076].
```

> COVAX is a multilateral initiative as part of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator coordinated by the WHO, Gavi The Vaccine Alliance, and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), the latter two supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
COVAX is a multilateral initiative as part of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator coordinated by the WHO, Gavi The Vaccine Alliance, and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), the latter two of which are supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
```

Their intention is to accelerate the development of COVID-19 vaccines, diagnostics, and therapeutics and to ensure the equitable distribution of vaccines to low- and middle-income countries [@doi:10.1111/1468-0009.12503; @url:https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/fair-allocation-mechanism-for-covid-19-vaccines-through-the-covax-facility]. 

> COVAX invested in several vaccine candidates to ensure they had access to successful vaccine candidates [@doi:10.1126/science.369.6503.489].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
COVAX invested in several vaccine programs to ensure they would have access to successful vaccine candidates [@doi:10.1126/science.369.6503.489].
```

The COVAX plan ensured that all participating countries would be allocated vaccines in proportion to their population sizes. 

> When each country received vaccine doses to account for 20% of their population, the country’s risk profile would determine the subsequent phases of vaccine distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once each country has received vaccine doses to account for 20% of their population, the country’s risk profile will determine its place in subsequent phases of vaccine distribution.
```

> However, several limitations of this framework exist, including that the COVAX scheme seems to go against the WHO’s own ethical principles of human wellbeing, equal respect, and global equity, and that other frameworks might have been more suitable which is discussed elsewhere [@doi: 10.1136/bmj.m4853].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, several limitations of this framework exist, including that the COVAX scheme seems to go against the WHO’s own ethical principles of human wellbeing, equal respect, and global equity, and that other frameworks might have been more suitable, as is discussed elsewhere [@doi: 10.1136/bmj.m4853].
```

> Furthermore, COVAX is supposed to allow poorer countries access to affordable vaccines, but vaccines are produced by companies that are required to make a profit [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/25/business/coronavirus-vaccines-global-economy.html].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, COVAX is supposed to allow poorer countries access to affordable vaccines, but the vaccines are driven by publicly traded companies that are required to make a profit [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/25/business/coronavirus-vaccines-global-economy.html].
```

India has also shipped approximately 58 million COVID-19 vaccines to 66 countries [@url:https://www.mea.gov.in/vaccine-supply.htm]
Considering India produces approximately 60% of the world's vaccines prior to the pandemic, it is no surprise that several other vaccine candidates are under development. 
These include ZyCov-Di a DNA vaccine produced by Zydus Cadila, HGCO19 India’s first mRNA vaccine produced by Genova and HDT Biotech Corporation (USA), and the Bio E subunit vaccine produced by Biological E in collaboration with US-based Dynavax and the Baylor College of Medicine [@url:https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-india-55748124]. 

In China, the Sinopharm-Beijing Institute vaccine, the Sinopharm-Wuhan Institute of Biological Products vaccine, the Sinovac Biotech (CoronaVac) vaccine, and CanSino Biologics vaccine are the main vaccines being distributed. 
The Sinopharm-Beijing vaccine has been distributed to at least 16 countries. 

> This vaccine is currently approved for use in Bahrain, China, and the United Arab Emirates, but has been granted emergency use in Argentina, Cambodia, Egypt, Guyana, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Venezuela, and Zimbabwe, with limited use in both Serbia and the Seychelles [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#sinopharm].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This vaccine is currently approved for use in Bahrain, China, and the United Arab Emirates, but has been granted emergency use in Argentina, Cambodia, Egypt, Guyana, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Venezuela, and Zimbabwe, with limited use in both Serbia and the Seychelles [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#sinopharm].<!--To do: clean citation-->
```

> The Sinovac vaccine, CoronaVac, has been approved for use in China, and has been granted emergency use in Azerbaijan, Brazil, Cambodia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and Uruguay [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#sinovac].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sinovac vaccine, CoronaVac, has been approved for use in China, and has been granted emergency use in Azerbaijan, Brazil, Cambodia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and Uruguay [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#sinovac].<!--To Do: clean citation-->
```

> Sinovac has reported that their platform now has the capacity to provide up to a billion doses [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#sinovac].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sinovac has reported that their platform now has the capacity to provide up to a billion doses [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#sinovac].<!--To Do: clean citation-->
```

Indeed, Sinovac and Sinopharm have estimated that they will be able to produce 2 billion doses by the end of 2021, and they have been able to distribute vaccines as aid to the Philippines and Pakistan [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/25/business/china-covid-19-vaccine-backlash.html].

> In contrast, the Sinopharm-Wuhan vaccine, which has been approved for use in China since February 25th, 2021, has been distributed almost exclusively within China, with limited supplies distributed to the United Arab Emirates [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#wuhan].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast, the Sinopharm-Wuhan vaccine, which has been approved for use in China since February 25th, 2021, has been distributed almost exclusively within China, with limited supplies distributed to the United Arab Emirates [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html#wuhan].<!--To Do: clean citation-->
```
